---
title: I thought I was an alien
date: 2013-09-15T15:52:06+00:00
layout: post
permalink: /i-thought-i-was-an-alien/
categories:
  - life
---
<p>Seriously.</p><p>Around the age of ten or so, I wasn't sure if I was human or not.&nbsp;</p><p>For some reason I had cooked up a theory that I was an alien from another planet.</p><p>I was certain that whenever I looked into a mirror there was some kind of clever technology projecting a perfectly synchronised video of a human face back at me.&nbsp;</p><p>It's probably best not to dwell too long on this: as with most far-fetched science fiction movies, the basic premise falls apart on close inspection.&nbsp;</p><p>For example, what about when I looked my hands... h<span style="line-height: 1.6em;">ow come they weren't green and four-fingered? (No offence intended to any aliens reading this).&nbsp;</span></p><p><span style="line-height: 1.6em;">These days I am forever comparing myself with other people, not aliens.&nbsp;</span><br></p><p>Which is equally unhelpful.&nbsp;</p><p><em>Look at X, he's a much better writer/photographer/cyclist/person than me.</em></p><p><em>Look at X, they've got 10,000 Twitter more followers than me.</em></p><p><em>Look at X, she's so much happier than me.</em></p><p>However...&nbsp;</p><p>X might have started doing whatever he does days or even decades before you.&nbsp;</p><p>X might have purchased all those Twitter followers instead of earning them honestly like you did.</p><p>X might be an incredibly sad person underneath all her smiles.&nbsp;</p><p>You can never really know for sure.</p><h2>Comparing yourself to other people is stupid</h2><p>When you do, at best you're guessing and at worst you are projecting your insecurities onto someone else's apparent success.</p><p>The fastest route to happiness is to focus your attention on your own activities.</p><p>That might sound&nbsp;narcissistic, but it's not n<span style="line-height: 1.6em;">avel-gazing that I'm advocating here.</span></p><p>I'm talking about staying in the present moment, enjoying the process, living your own life, or whatever else you want to call it.&nbsp;</p><p>Whenever you compare yourself with other people, you're wasting precious energy. &nbsp;</p><h2>How to cut down on your comparison-making</h2><ol><li>Remember that everyone is different. Celebrate all the weird and wonderful variations in the human species.&nbsp;</li><li>Do things that make you happy, instead of doing things to make other people happy. &nbsp;</li><li>Be grateful for the things you have already, instead of focussing on what others have. &nbsp;</li><li>Give up trying to be perfect. (The only way to be perfect is to do nothing, which isn't going to get you anywhere).&nbsp;</li></ol>
