---
title: The secret of shorter.
date: 2016-06-15T14:46:57+00:00

excerpt: '<p>Making something shorter doesn’t mean making it less interesting or less sexy.</p>'
layout: post
permalink: /shorter/
categories:
  - Writing
---
<p>Last night I cooked the best meal I’ve had for weeks.</p>
<p>It was a whole sea-bass, stuffed with dried thyme, drizzled with extra-virgin olive oil, and roasted in the oven on a bed of sliced onion and red pepper.</p>
<p>The vegetables were crisped up and slightly charred around the edges, the fish had a subtle fragrance of thyme... it was delicious.</p>
<p>And the ingredients list was only five items long:</p>
<ul>
<li>Seabass</li>
<li>Thyme</li>
<li>Onion</li>
<li>Red Pepper</li>
<li>Olive Oil</li>
</ul>
<p>So I’d wager that you could read this, walk down to the supermarket, and still remember the whole list.</p>
<p>Shorter is simpler.<br>Shorter is faster to read.<br>Shorter is easier to remember.</p>
<p>But shorter doesn’t mean lazier, lower quality, or less interesting.</p>
<p>Shorter is just… shorter.</p>
<h2 id="why-don-t-more-people-do-shorter-">Why don’t more people do shorter?</h2>
<p>Because shorter takes longer.</p>
<p>A classic recipe can consist of just a few high-quality ingredients. You just have to work out what will set people’s tastebuds tingling…</p>
<p>A great screenplay often has just five key turning points. The opportunity, the change of plan, the point of no-return, the major setback, and the climax. </p>
<p>A memorable talk can usually be boiled down to five key ideas. Which is why if I’m writing a talk, the first thing I do is figure out my five ideas, and which order makes the best story…</p>
<p>Shorter isn’t easier than longer.</p>
<p>But… </p>
<p><strong>If you can make an idea fit on one hand, you can make it stick.</strong></p>
<p>Can you make it shorter?</p>
