---
id: 810
title: These are the things you can always control, no matter how tough life gets
date: 2016-06-26T08:17:01+00:00
author: James Greig
layout: post
guid: http://greig.cc/20166control/
permalink: /control/
categories:
  - Uncategorised
---
<p>Stand up for a second, and look at your feet.</p>
<p>You're looking down, right?</p>
<p>(Gravity makes it pretty obvious).</p>
<p>Now close your eyes, and imagine you're looking through a camera that's hovering above your head.</p>
<p>The camera start to zoom out. You're as high as a satellite now, and the earth is laid out below you. </p>
<p>Zoom out some more.</p>
<p>You see a tiny blue sphere of water and cloud and rock floating in space. </p>
<p>Now pull back again until you can see our entire solar system, and you'll see that Earth isn't just hovering there, it's zipping around the Sun at 67,000 miles per hour.</p>
<p>Which way is "up" and which way is "down" now?</p>
<p>I don't know. The human brain can't cope with reality at this scale.</p>
<p>And for good reason..</p>
<p>"Up", "down", "good", "bad", "right" and "wrong" are all human constructs.</p>
<p>Our perception of the world = our reality.</p>
<p>(And all of the major religions have reached pretty much the same conclusion on this).</p>
<p>No matter how tough a situation might seem, there's more than one way to look at it.</p>
<h2 id="things-you-can-always-control">Things you can (always) control</h2>
<ol>
<li>Your beliefs</li>
<li>Your attitude</li>
<li>Your thoughts</li>
<li>Your perspective</li>
<li>How honest you are</li>
<li>Who your friends are</li>
<li>What books you read</li>
<li>How often you exercise</li>
<li>The type of food you eat</li>
<li>How many risks you take</li>
<li>How you interpret situations</li>
<li>How kind you are to others</li>
<li>How kind you are to yourself</li>
<li>How often you say “I love you”</li>
<li>How often you say “Thank you”</li>
<li>How you express your feelings</li>
<li>Whether or not you ask for help</li>
<li>How often you practice gratitude</li>
<li>How many times you smile today</li>
<li>The amount of effort you put forth</li>
<li>How you spend/invest your money</li>
<li>How much time you spend worrying</li>
<li>How often you think about your past</li>
<li>Whether or not you judge other people</li>
<li>Whether or not you try again after a setback</li>
<li>How much you appreciate the things you have</li>
</ol>
<p>After we're done with "How do I feel about this?", we should ask another ourselves another question — "What can I do about it?"</p>