---
id: 396
title: 639th time lucky.
date: 2016-04-03T12:45:31+00:00
author: James Greig
excerpt: '<p>Why do I keep writing when most of the time the process drives me crazy?</p>'
layout: post
guid: http://greig.cc/2016/04/03/20164639th-time-lucky/
permalink: /639th-time-lucky/
categories:
  - Uncategorised
---
<p>I just logged into my admin panels to check the numbers.</p>
<p>162 posts on this blog.</p>
<p>477 posts on CycleLove.</p>
<p>That’s 639 blog posts in 4 years.</p>
<p>Which averages out to about 3 blog posts a week.</p>
<p>Why do I keep writing when most of the time the process drives me crazy?</p>
<p>Why do I keep writing when it doesn’t pay the bills, let alone the rent?<br>(Yet…)</p>
<h2 id="blah-blah-blah-blah-blah">Blah blah blah blah blah</h2>
<p>I wake up with a head full of ideas—then let the day drip by, distracted.</p>
<p>And when I finally do start writing, rubbish comes out.</p>
<p>Today I was meant to be posting an article about re-channeling fear as excitement. But guess what… I procrastinated all day yesterday, and again this morning. The rough draft is there but I can’t bring myself to polish it up. (And yes, it’s nothing to do with fear—I’m just overthinking things as usual).</p>
<p>What is this madness? If writing is the cure, why does it feel like an illness?</p>
<p>When I started blogging, I was going through a rough patch. I thought that writing was just a way to document my life as it fell apart around me… the old things I was trying to leave behind, the new things I was trying out.</p>
<p>Four years later, it finally struck me.</p>
<p>Yes I’d gone on amazing trips, <a href="http://greig.cc/journal/2015/3/before-you-go-freelance">found a new freedom in being freelance</a>, and made a whole new network of friends via CycleLove. But there was something bigger than that.</p>
<p>Of all the things I had written about, over all those hundreds of blog posts, it was the writing itself that was most transformative. </p>
<p><a href="http://greig.cc/journal/2016/2/why-you-should-write">Writing changed me</a>.</p>
<p>It wasn’t just a record of where I’d been, but a manifesto for where I wanted to go, and a tool to get there faster.</p>
<p>That’s why I keep putting the words down, even though it feels like rolling a boulder uphill.</p>
<h2 id="do-the-work-">Do the work.</h2>
<p>Keep doing the work.</p>
<p>Even if no-one gives a shit.</p>
<p><em>Especially</em> when no-one gives a shit… because it gets even harder when someone does, and you’re wondering if what you’re doing will live up to their expectations.</p>
<p>The first album is easy. You don’t have any fans yet, and expectations are zero.</p>
<p>The second album’s a fucker. Your critics are waiting to shoot you down.</p>
<p>The third album’s a lament for the time just before your first album came out, when life was free and easy and no-one knew who you were.</p>
<p>Fuck it.</p>
<p>Do the work.</p>
<p>Do the work when you don’t feel like it.</p>
<p>Do the work on the rare days when you do feel like it, and smile.</p>
<p>There’s no pot of gold at the end of the rainbow. </p>
<p>But it’s not about the result.</p>
<p><strong>The work is the reward.</strong></p>
<p>You’re getting lucky every time you do it.</p>
<p>So I don’t care if my 639th article gets lucky. Because I’ve already been lucky 638 times already.</p>
<p>Lucky to be alive, to be breathing, to be thinking.</p>
<p>And I'm lucky to be talking to you now.</p>
<p>639th time lucky.</p>